Economic Overview and Outlook
The global economy continued to grow, with estimated
output growth of 3.7% in 2017 as against 3.2% in 2016.
Tax reforms in the U.S. should push the economy to grow
2.7% in 2018 vis-à-vis 2.3% in 2017. Emerging economies
are projected to rise to 4.9% in 2018 from 4.7% in 2017.
(Source: World Economic Outlook Update, January 2018)
The Indian economy witnessed implementation of a series
of transformational reforms in FY 2018. It is projected
to grow at 6.75% in FY 2018 and edge up to 7-7.5% in FY
2019, thereby regaining the world’s fastest growing major
economy tag.

Pharmaceutical Sector Overview
Global
The pharmaceutical industry plays a unique role in
improving the lives of patients. It is also one of the
world’s fastest growing industries and among the biggest
contributors to the world economy.
Global spending
According to the Quintiles IMS Institute, the pharmaceutical
market will reach nearly USD 1,485 billion by 2021, an
increase of USD 350-380 billion from the USD 1,105 billion
recorded in 2016. This growth is expected to be driven by
market expansion in pharmerging countries and a higher
proportion of aged population in developed countries.

Spending by geography
USA is expected to continue to be the world’s largest
pharmaceutical market and its share in global spending
is projected to increase from USD 461.7 billion in 2016 to
USD 645-675 billion in 2021. The European share of spending
will grow from USD 151.8 billion to USD 170-200 billion.
Meanwhile, pharmerging countries spend will increase from
USD 242.9 billion to USD 315-345 billion in 2021.

India
The Indian pharmaceutical industry is the 14th largest
market in the world by value; in terms of volume it is the
3rd largest. India manufactures 20% of all generics made
globally and exports to 200 countries, with USA as the
principal market.
While during the year under review, domestic growth
slowed down in the wake of implementation of Goods
and Services Tax (GST), the outlook remains positive.
Increase in the size of middle-class households coupled
with the improvement in medical infrastructure and jump
in the penetration of health insurance in the country are
expected to boost domestic demand for pharmaceutical
products. By 2020, India is anticipated to become the top
three pharmaceutical markets by incremental growth and
6th largest market globally in absolute size. India’s focus
on providing complex and speciality products, customercentricity, regulatory compliance, quality improvement and
operational efficiency are expected to enhance exports.
Exports from India stood at USD 16.84 billion in FY 2016-17;
it is expected to reach USD 20 billion by 2020.


The Indian pharmaceutical industry is well-positioned to
reinforce its position as a global pharmaceutical provider.
As per industry estimates, India’s pharmaceutical
industry is expected to expand at a CAGR of 12.89% over
2015–20 to reach USD 55 billion and by 2025 to grow to
USD 100 billion.
Emerging Markets
With rising income levels, growing health awareness
and better access to healthcare, emerging markets offer
significant growth potential for the pharmaceutical industry.
In recent times, there is an increase in occurrence of noncommunicable diseases such as cardiovascular illnesses,
diabetes, and oncologic disorders. It is estimated that
incidence of diabetes and oncologic diseases will grow by
around 20% by 2030.
The African pharmaceutical industry is the fastest growing
in the world. The market size is estimated to be worth USD
40-60 billion a year by 2020. The size of the Francophone
(French-speaking) African pharmaceutical market was
estimated at more than USD 2.5 billion and is anticipated to
grow at close to 10% a year until 2022.
Africa is a crucial market and it has its set of challenges like
macroeconomic landscape, political complexities, poverty,
lack of health literacy and limited spending by governments
for national healthcare due to weak economic growth and a
high reliance on donor funding.
USA
The  United States alone holds over 45% of the global
pharmaceutical market. In 2016, this share was valued
around USD 446 billion. Generics continue to enjoy a
formidable percentage of USA’s pharmaceutical market
with more than 88% prescription patterns filled by generic
drugs.
India, exports drugs worth USD 16.5 billion to the USA
annually which, as per Assocham report, is expected to rise
to USD 20 billion by 2020 – a compounded annual growth
rate of 30%. This growth is based on several patented drugs
going off-patent in USA over the next few years. However,
intensification of competition in generics resulting in
price erosion, frequent regulatory scrutiny leading to
slowdown of exports and channel consolidation impacting
manufacturers’ ability to charge higher prices are the
current challenges being faced in this market.

RISE IN GLOBAL SPENDING ON HEALTHCARE
USD 8.7trillion by 2020
As spends on healthcare (includes service
delivery; health workforce; information; medical
products, vaccines, technologies, etc.) increases,
the pharmaceutical industry will also benefit.
INCREASED INCOME
160 million people a year
Rise in number of middle-class population in
both emerging and developed markets means
more disposable income and expectation of
better healthcare solutions.
AGEING POPULATION
21% by 2020
Increase in 60+ age group, means increased
cases of age-related diseases, thus higher
demand for medicines.
GROWING WORLD POPULATION
9.3 billion by 2050
A growing global population will fuel the
demand for pharmaceutical products.
CHANGING LIFESTYLES
642 million by 2040
Higher proportion of number of people
affected by diabetes.

Company Overview
Ajanta Pharma is a speciality pharmaceutical formulation
company engaged in the development, manufacture and
marketing of quality finished dosages. The Company is
focussed on the branded generics market in India, Asia
and Africa, generics market in USA besides Institutional
segment in Africa. With revenue being generated from a
wide range of products and more than 30 countries, the
Company’s business is well-diversified and de-risked.
Ajanta Pharma’s competitive edge is its strong focus on
customised products for every market where it operates.
This high level of innovation has been achieved on the
foundation of robust infrastructure, strong scientific
knowledge base and latest technology. The Company has
six formulation manufacturing facilities, (two are USFDA
approved) and a state-of-the-art Research & Development
Centre spread over 100,000 sq. ft. Over 6,500 employees
are engaged worldwide to ensure efficient and seamless
business functioning.
Operational Highlights for FY 2018
• Consolidated Turnover at ` 2,155 cr.
• Consolidated Profit after Tax at ` 469 cr.
• Indian Pharma Market ranking improved to
32nd position from 33rd position
• Derma section commissioned at Guwahati
• Enhanced R&D spend to 9% of revenue
Performance Highlights
India
Ajanta Pharma’s India business continued to perform
well steered by strong focus on high growth speciality
segments. While roll-out of the GST impacted operations
across the industry, the Company’s readiness enabled it
to transition seamlessly to the new tax regime. As per
IMS MAT March 2018, the Company grew at par with
Indian Pharmaceutical Market (IPM) at 6%. Within the
speciality segments that the Company operates in, except
for Dermatology all segments recorded higher than
industry growth. Corrective measures have been taken,
and the Company is optimistic about reviving growth
in the Dermatology segment. The Company continues
to strengthen product portfolio through new launches,
many of them being first-to-market products offering
significant patient benefits. Apart from new launches,
many of the Company’s existing products continue to
grow their market share.

Exports
Notwithstanding a tough industry backdrop, the Company’s
international business grew by 9% in FY 2018. Growth was
primarily driven by strong revival in Asia markets, led by
product addition and enhanced market focus. Stable crude
oil prices in Asia also helped improve business environment.
In Africa, branded generics business continues to remain
on a strong footing; however, with Global Fund business on
the decline, institutional sales had seen de-growth.
In USA, greater price erosion due to competition
intensification and channel consolidation were the key
challenges faced by Indian manufacturers. Even amidst this
backdrop, led by new product launches and on the back of
existing products, the Company recorded a growth of 5% for
FY 2018. With 6 more products commercialised in the year,
total number of products commercialised stands at 18. The
Company received 4 ANDA approvals in the year, taking
cumulative approvals to 19, and 2 tentative approvals. 

Research & Development
The Company has strengthened its R&D function, spending
about 9% of its total operating income on R&D in FY 2018. 

Operational and Financial Performance
Our branded generic business performance in emerging
markets has posted healthy growth in line with our
expectation, whereas the India business growth has
come back after the GST impact in first quarter. Despite
the challenging price erosion environment in US market,
we have performed well during the year. The focus was
on launching new products, enhancing market share of
existing products and improving efficiencies.
PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
Revenue from operations
Revenue from operations increased to ` 2,131 cr. in FY
2018 from ` 2,002 cr. in FY 2017, a growth of 6%, even when
our institution business saw a de-growth in Africa. The
increase was driven by volume along with new launches of
customised and innovative products.
Material costs
Material costs saw a 200 basis point improvement, from
21% in FY 2017 to 19% in FY 2018 on the back of higher
proportion of branded generic business.
Employee expenses
Personnel expenses stood at ` 376 cr. for the year ended
FY 2018 as against ` 295 cr. in FY 2017. The increase was
on account of full year impact of team members added at
different times during FY 2017 and also due to increase in
gratuity limit.
Other expenses
Other expenses include manufacturing, marketing,
distribution, R&D and administrative expenses which stood
at ` 690 cr. in FY 2018 as against ` 605 cr. in FY 2017. As
a percentage of revenue, other expenses have gone up
to 32% as against 30% in the previous year, mainly due to
higher R&D cost.
Margins
EBITDA stood at 31% in FY 2018 as against 35% in the
previous year. Net margins stood at 22% in FY 2018 as
against 25% in the previous year. EBITDA was majorly
impacted, due to plant expenses of Dahej and Guwahati.
BALANCE SHEET
Non-current assets
This mainly comprises property plant and equipment which
has gone up in line with our continued capex investment in
manufacturing facilities and R&D which has taken it from
` 997 cr. in FY 2017 to ` 1,225 cr. in FY 2018.
Current assets
Increase in inventory and trade receivables has mainly taken
the current asset level to ` 1,224 cr. in FY 2018 as against
` 851 cr. in FY 2017. The increase in inventory is the result
of commencement of operations at 2 new manufacturing
facilities and higher level in US.
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds increased from ` 1,568 cr. in FY 2017
to ` 2,041 cr. in FY 2018. Earnings per share stood at ` 53 in
FY 2018 as against ` 58 in FY 2017.

Non-current liabilities
The balance under this head increased from ` 33 cr. in
FY 2017 to ` 61 cr. in FY 2018 mainly on account of
increase in deferred tax liability and provisions for
employee payments.
Current liabilities
Increase in trade payable and provisions resulted in higher
current liability at ` 346 cr. in FY 2018 as against ` 247 cr.
in FY 2017.
Human Assets
Ajanta Pharma is powered by rich pool of knowledgeable
and proficient employees. People contribution is key to
Company’s continued success and growth, where strong
emphasis is given towards creating a safe, healthy,
stimulating and energising workplace.
To empower our people perform and reach their
potential, we have in place a well-designed leadership
competency framework. Leadership capabilities developed
across the organisation also ensures business growth,
expertise to drive innovation and agility to respond to a
changing environment.
We have aligned our HR policy to the evolving needs of the
global pharmaceutical industry. To further augment people
capabilities, we are imbibing industry-best HR practices to
inspire our team towards excellence. As part of our teambuilding efforts, we undertake regular activities to promote
their mental and physical wellness. These initiatives include
promotion of health, sports, hobbies, individual talent,
celebrations of special days, etc. Such efforts have helped
us bring down attrition of our employees.
Communication and collaboration is encouraged to instil a
sense of belonging and pride in working for Ajanta Pharma.
Our reward and recognition programme foster a highperformance culture and drives employee engagement.
Risk Management
Ajanta Pharma has established a strong risk mitigation
process which entails regular and stringent monitoring of
its business activities to identify, evaluate and resolve risks.
The top management of the Company and the Board are
involved in monitoring of risk assessment and mitigation,
thus ensuring a quick resolution mechanism. The Company
has a work philosophy of doing business with high ethical
standards and topmost integrity. This principle has helped
it to pre-empt and ease considerably the risks that came
across its way.
During the year, Company established a risk management
committee, where Managing Director and Joint Managing
Director along with senior management review key internal
financial controls and their effectiveness in the form of a
risk matrix, inherent risks associated with each function, risk
assessment and classification of these risks into different
categories. The work of risk management committee is
reviewed by audit committee and board periodically.
The following are the key risks faced by the Company and
mitigation plans for each of those risks:

Risk Risk Description Mitigation Plan
COMPETITION
RISK
Company faces competition from pharmaceutical
companies from India and other parts of the world.
These competitor companies bring new products in the
market which can affect the Company’s market share and
revenue.
Company identifies unmet medical needs of
patients, develop those products in R&D and
launch innovative and customised products
ahead of competition.
REGULATORY
RISK
Company has to comply with extant laws and regulations
prevailing in the country of its operations. These
regulation can affect the development, manufacturing,
approval, marketing and distribution of its products.
Changes in the country’s laws or regulations also throw
new challenges of compliance.
Company has established a strong quality
assurance mechanism and compliance
monitoring network to ensure compliance. It also
organises regular training for its employees to
update them on new developments.
GLOBAL
ECONOMIC
VOLATILITY
RISK
Company has business dealings in many countries. Each
of these markets presents a different economic and
political risk along with the ever present threat of natural
disasters.
A widespread global presence, with no
overdependence on any one region or country,
considerably insulates the Company from any
uneventful developments in any particular
market. Further, strong emphasis is given to
regular tracking of the local developments to
address these risks.
FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
RISK
The Company earns a major part of its revenue in foreign
exchange, thus exposing it to the volatility in the exchange
rates. This can have an adverse effect on its earnings.
The Company does meticulous monitoring of the
rate fluctuations. It also follows a robust hedging
policy.

Internal Controls and Adequacy
The Company has a comprehensive system of Internal
Controls to safeguard its assets against loss from
unauthorised use and ensure reliability of financial
reporting. It maintains a system of internal controls
designed for effectiveness and efficiency of operations,
compliance and regulations. All operations are governed
through automated internal business controls, centralised
global process framework and integrated key support
functions. Quarterly tracking of annual quality objectives is
done using QMS (quality management software), and any
concerns are immediately flagged for effective addressing.
The system of internal controls monitors and ensures
process for:
• Prudent financial control
• Accountability and integrity
• Automated control procedures
All transactions are recorded and reported in accordance
with the Accounting Standards. The internal auditors for
different locations submit reports and updates. The Audit
Committee of the Board review reports submitted by the
independent internal auditors and monitor follow-up and
corrective action.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis
describing the Company’s objective, projections, estimates,
expectations may be forward-looking statements. Actual
results may differ materially from those expressed or implied
due to various risks and uncertainties. Important factors
that could make a difference to the Company’s operations
include economic and political condition in India and in
the countries in which the Company operates, volatility
in interest rates, changes in government regulations and
policies, tax laws, statutes and other incidental factors. The
Company does not undertake to update these statements.