Global Pharmaceutical Industry
The pharmaceutical sector is at
crossroads. In a heavily disrupted
marketplace, characterized by
shifting payer attitudes and patient
empowerment, pharmaceutical
players will have to constantly
innovate their business models to
keep up with the changing times.
While globally, the sector has seen
some slowdown owing to increased
raw material and pricing pressures, the
pharmaceutical sector is expected to
experience some tailwind in the form
of an increasing older population,
advent of new technologies along
with developments in science,
increase in the demand of pharma
products to address various lifestyle
related diseases, and expansion into
emerging market.
The pharmaceutical industry revenue
is expected to demonstrate a steady
growth from 2017 till 2022, as
increasing number of pharmaceutical
manufacturers ramp up their R&D
capabilities and expand their product
portfolio to meet the changing
healthcare needs of various markets.
The global pharmaceutical market has
grown at a CAGR of 5% from 2011 to
2016 to reach at a level of $936 billion.


While the pharmaceutical industry’s
main markets have been under
pressure in recent times; the global
pharmaceutical market is expected to
grow at a CAGR of 3% to 6% till 2021
to reach at a value of $1.4 trillion on
account of an increased expenditure
on drug procurement across the
globe. The growth will be led by
developed markets, mainly USA, the
5 key European markets of France
Italy, UK, Spain, Germany, and lastly
Japan. The contribution to growth
by pharmerging markets is expected
to rise even through a slowdown is
anticipated in China, one of the major
pharmerging markets.
Pharmaceutical companies across the
globe are facing various challenges,
such as price pressure, regulatory
constraints, and competition from
local and international companies.
Apart from these macro and industry
specific challenges, the pharma
industry is impacted by significant
political developments in the United
States and in Europe. The industry
will also be affected by internal
developments such as drugs coming
to an end of their patent life, thus
impacting the performance of
innovator companies. It is estimated
that ~$160 billion worth of sales are
at risk between 2018 – 2022 given the
global patent expiry pipeline.
Generic Drugs Market
A generic drug is a chemical equivalent
designed from a branded drug whose
patent has expired. Generic drugs
plays an important role in increasing
the accessibility as well as affordability
of modern-day pharmaceutical
products. It allows access to expensive
treatments at a much lower cost.
This allows generic drugs to play an
essential role in sustainable healthcare.
Generics market all over the world is
witnessing excellent growth and the
surging relevance of this market. The
global market for generic drugs is
expected to grow at a CAGR of 10.8%
from $228 billion in 2016 to $380
billion in 2021 supported by a shift in
public policy by governments towards
reduction in patient expenditure
– both out-of-pocket and State
sponsored. This is further aided by the
patent expiration pipeline of branded
drugs which opens the market for
new generic drugs. Branded drugs are
expected to lose sales of around $160
billion by 2022 due to patent expiry
between 2018 to 2022. It is expected
that the generic drugs market will not
only benefit from patent expiry but
will also adopt different licensing and
partnering activities to successfully
launch new products and augment
their market share. However, with
increased competition among generic
players, the issue of base business
pricing remains a risk factor.
Over The Counter (OTC) Drugs
Market
OTC drugs are non-prescription
medicines, which are sold directly to
consumers without any prescription
from doctors and other healthcare
professionals. OTC drugs are mainly
sold through convenience stores
and are a major component of the
healthcare industry. As pharmaceutical
companies innovate and launch new
OTC drugs in the market, the role
of these drugs will only continue to
expand and evolve with time.
The OTC drugs market is expected
to grow at a CAGR of 8.5% from
$150 billion in 2016 to $243 billion in
2022. This robust growth is expected
to be driven by various factors such
as demographic and economic
trends, switching of medicines
from prescription to OTC sales, and
changes in cultural attitude of selfmedication and regulatory processes
in national markets.
Indian Pharmaceutical Industry
India is among the leading participants
in the global pharmaceutical market
accounting for around 3.1 to 3.6
percent of the global pharmaceutical
industry in terms of value, and 10
percent in terms of volume. India’s
pharmaceutical exports stood at $16.4
billion in 2016-17 and are expected
to grow by 30% to reach $20 billion
by 2020. India is the second largest
contributor to pharmaceutical and
biotech workforce in the world and is
set to become a major global market
by 2020.
India exports drugs to more than 200
countries in the world, with the US
being the key export market. Exports
contribute over 50 percent to the
Indian pharmaceutical industry’s
turnover. Around 20 percent of
exports are accounted for by the
generic drugs in terms of volume,
which is expected to expand further

in the years to come, making India
the largest contributor of generic
medicines in the world. India’s export
of pharmaceutical items reached US$
16.64 billion in FY17 and US$ 6.4 billion
between April and September, 2017.
This decline was because of price
erosion in the U.S. generic market,
increased competition, no major
contribution from any blockbuster
drugs went off-patent and various
regulatory issues faced by the Indian
pharma companies.
The Indian pharmaceuticals industry
appears set for a sharp turnaround
in fiscal 2019 on the back of strong
growth in the overseas market,
particularly in regulated markets
of the US and the EU, aided by
continued healthy growth in the
domestic market. Although exports
account for 50% of the revenue of
the Indian pharmaceuticals industry,
its contribution at the EBIDTA level
is higher owing to relatively superior
realisations from products sold in
regulated markets.
Meanwhile, lower generic
opportunity, rising competition,
supplier consolidation, and increase in
regulatory alerts on Indian plants were
the other major factors impacting the
domestic sector.
Indian pharmaceutical sector is in the
midst of its most challenging period
as it faces headwinds from multiple
sides - aggressive buyers exerting
pricing pressure in the US, fewer
blockbuster opportunities, intensifying
competition from smaller players,
a vigilant US government looking
to rationalize prices and demand to
genericize the domestic market.
Advantage India
The main reasons for the growth
of Indian Pharmaceutical industry
include:
Cost Efficiency
• Low cost of production, labor, and
R&D boosts the efficiency of Indian
pharma companies.
• India’s production costs are
significantly lower than that of the
US and Europe.
Policy Support
• Central government launched
‘Pharma Vision 2020’ targeted at
making India a global leader in end
to end drug manufacturing

• Reduction in approval time for new
facilities which is expected to boost
new investments
• Government has allowed 100%
FDI in the pharmaceutical industry,
increasing the scope of investments
Economic Drivers
• Increasing per capita income
improves drug affordability
• Increasing penetration of health
insurance, both private and
government sponsored schemes
COMPANY OVERVIEW
About the Company
Granules India Limited is a largescale vertically integrated Company
founded in 1991 manufacturing
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient
(API), Pharmaceutical Formulation
Intermediate (PFI) and Finished Dosage
(FD). With a strong presence across
all three vertical, the Company has
created a leadership position in the
off-patent drugs segment along with
ensuring a strong presence in ‘first line of
defense’ products such as Paracetamol,
Ibuprofen, Metformin and Guaifenesin.
The Company, in line with its vision “to
be the global leader in pharmaceutical
manufacturing by process innovation
and unparalleled efficiencies” has a
global presence across 60+ countries
servicing over 250 customers. With
exports comprising over 80 percent
of total revenue, Granules is today the
preferred supplier for some of the world’s
leading pharma branded and generics
companies. Dedicated to excellence in
manufacturing, quality and customer
service, it possesses one of largest PFI
and single site FD facilities in the world. It
is also home to one of the World’s largest
Paracetamol API facilities.
The Company believes that the
fundamental philosophy of a business
is decided by how a company goes
about creating, developing and
nurturing the basics that build up
the business. Its unaltered focus on
operational excellence and process
innovation enables it to be an
efficient manufacturer of high-volume
pharmaceutical products.
After building a strong competency
in high-volume manufacturing to
strengthen the core business, the
Company is working on diversifying
beyond its core business. The Emerging
Businesses Division which was set up
with the acquisition of Auctus Pharma
in 2014 was a big step towards taking
the Company ahead with a renewed
portfolio of products with a focus on
molecules with limited competition.
In line with this strategy, the Company
embarked on strengthening its R&D
capabilities to develop new generic
molecules and improve the efficiency
of its present portfolio. Granules
established one API R&D centre in
Hyderabad and two formulation R&D
centres located at Hyderabad and
in Virginia, the US. It’s the Virginia
facility that also has the formulation
manufacturing facility which further
validates the Company’s intent towards
emerging as a leading pharmaceutical
player in its target markets.
As part of the Emerging Business
Division, Granules is building
capabilities to develop products in
the Oncology and High potent APIs at
the Granules Research Center. These
APIs will be manufactured at a facility
located at Vizag, which is currently
under construction.
The Company has been successful
in augmenting its position as a
multinational company, not just in
terms of product but also in terms of
manufacturing presence. Presently the
Company has eight manufacturing
facilities, out of which six are located
in India and one in the US. It also has
two operational manufacturing units
located in India and China through
its joint venture entities. About 62%
of the company’s total turnover is
generated from the regulated markets
of North America and Europe. It also
has meaningful presence in the Latin
American countries. Domestic market
contributes around 20% of the business.
Our valued partners
Forging strong relationships with other
major global players has been one of
the major strategies for the company.
Over the years, it has formed
relationships with some of the most
renowned pharmaceutical companies
in the industry. Its joint ventures
include the following:
Granules Biocause: Established in
2006, it is a joint venture (JV) between
Granules India and Hubei Biocause of
China. Hubei, the Chinese company,
is well known across the globe as
one of the premium manufacturers
of Ibuprofen APIs. This JV provides
supply security for Ibuprofen APIs
which further strengthened Granule’s
position in the manufacturing of
Ibuprofen PFIs and FDs.

Granules Omnichem: Established
in 2011, a JV between Granules
India and Ajinomoto Omnichem of
Belgium,. Ajinomoto Omnichem a
well-established player in the CRAMS
market. Thus this strategic JV has
allowed Granules to enter the CRAMS
market, without any major investments
in R&D. Further this 50:50 partnership
has not only allowed Granules to
manufacture high-value intermediates
and APIs, but also helped in adding
one more growth lever for the future
as a high quality CRAMS player.
Our Core Competencies
Sustainable growth
At Granules, there is adequate focus
on topline growth and margins. This
has ensured value on the table for all
our stakeholders - vendors, customers,
employees, the government and
shareholders.
Integrated business model
Over the years, Granules has evolved
itself from just an API manufacturer
to a Company that has a strong
presence across the value chain in
the pharmaceutical industry. Thus
establishing itself as a complete global
pharmaceutical player with presence
in APIs, PFIs and FD.
Experienced management team
The Company has attracted industry
veterans for several senior positions,
drawing talent from prestigious
companies. This intellectual capital
forms a cornerstone for growth
and the Company has consciously
strengthened this area to sustain
growth
Customer Relationships:
The Company has been able to create
and sustain strong relationships with
globally major pharmaceutical players.
This has helped it strengthen its
revenue model. It has its own ANDAs
and dossiers, which makes it possible
for customers to enter markets
with high-quality and cost-effective
products.
Economies of Scale:
The Company possesses industry
leading batch size for manufacturing
PFIs and is among the largest in APIs
in its core business product portfolio.
This large scale production helps
reduce production costs and enhance
operational efficiency.
State-of- art infrastructure:
The Company has always focused
on having advanced infrastructure at
its operational facilities. The constant
investments in technology have
helped its customers rely on the
company over a period of time.
Global Customer Base:
The Company has 250 customers
present across 60 countries around
the globe.
Overview of the Business
Verticals
Granules India objective is to deliver
the best possible solutions which
meets the requirement specifications
of its esteemed customers across
the globe. Keeping the needs of its
customers at the forefront of every
business decision, it broadly supplies
products into three verticals.
(I) Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients
(API): When it comes to the
production of APIs, Granules is
one of the most cost-effective
and efficient manufacturers.
Further, it has cemented its
place in the world as one of the
leaders in the manufacturing
of Paracetamol, Metformin,
Guaifenesin and Methocarbamol.
Over the years the Company
undertook a number of measures
like the setting up of a new
in-house R&D centre at Hyderabad
and the acquisition of Auctus
Pharma, to further strengthen
its position in the global pharma
industry and to further enhance its
product offerings in the API space.
Use of advanced technology
coupled with a strong intellectual
team and a critical backward
integration process, has made it
possible for Granules to achieve
leadership position in products
with global acceptability. Use
of advanced technology, along
with expertise and knowledge of
regulations allows Granules to
consistently meet the demands of
our customers.
Granules has completed the
expansion of its API manufacturing
capacities for Paracetamol
and Metformin. The capacity
enhancement for Guaifenesin is
underway and is expected to be
completed in the fiscal 2018-19.
(II) Pharmaceutical Formulation
Intermediates (PFI): One of the
pioneers in commercialising
PFIs, Granules India Limited
has been successful in creating
a name for itself in the global
pharma industry as a premier PFI
manufacturer. It broke the ageold concept of early 1990s, where
PFIs were not efficiently produced
and caused high operational
costs to the clients. Granules
has a 6 ton PFI batch size, which
gives a sustainable competitive
advantage in terms of economies
of scale and a cost advantage
for its clients. Presently, the PFI
business accounts for 25% of the
Company’s revenue.
Granules produces PFIs that are
taken from drums to hoppers
directly. The Company through
its PFI facilities at Jeedimetla
and Gagillapur processes these
intermediates to be compressed
into Finished Dosage forms. Some
of the benefits, for the customers,
of using the PFIs have been listed
below:
Reduced vendor development
cost: With only one vendor in
place for different processes and
materials used for manufacturing
PFIs, the customers observe a
substantial savings on development
costs and it also simplifies supply
chain management process.
Lower testing costs: In order
to minimize the testing costs of
the customers, the Company
has taken the onus upon itself to
deliver products of superior quality.
Thus allowing the customers to
conduct lesser tests, which in
turn saved substantial amount of
testing costs for them.
Saves technical resources:
Granules has deep experience
and expertise in manufacturing of
PFIs. This allows its customers to
trust and depend on it, enabling
them to avoid expenditure on
pre-formulation studies and
development processes.
Reduction of capital expenditure:
Since setting up a PFI
manufacturing facility requires
incurring capital expenditure, by
procuring the PFIs from Granules
India, the customers can reduce
their expenditure by a great extent.
Provide desired release properties:
Customers get access to PFIs,
which can be developed to provide
release properties, similar to brand
leaders. This makes it possible for
Finished Dosage manufacturers
to get favourable outcomes from
their bioequivalence studies.
(III) Finished Dosages: At Granules, the
manufacturing of finished dosages
represents the apex of the value
chain and its present portfolio
consists of caplets, tablets as well
as press-fit capsules in bulk, blister
packs, and bottles. The Company,
over the years, has developed a
state-of-art manufacturing facility
at Gagillapur, which possesses
automated processes, robust
infrastructure and superior
quality systems that efficiently
produce finished dosages. The
Company further strengthened its
customers’ competitive advantage
by providing Bi-layer Tablets, Rapid
Release tablets, and Extended
Release (ER) tablets. Further the

Company has developed its
own ANDAs and dossiers, which
has given its customer a ready
reckoning in the market without
getting delayed for approval. This
enables Granules to beat the
competition and emerge as the
preferred choice supplier of FD’s
for many customers. Presently,
the FD business accounts for 40%
of the Company’s revenue.
Research and Development
Granules India believes that the
sustainability of a company in the
pharmaceutical industry depends
on how a company goes about
enhancing, evolving and cultivating
the basics that build up the business.
Thus it believes that its R&D has played
an important role in propelling the
Company on the path of success in the
recent past. The choices it made with
the help of its R&D facilities in terms of
the products, therapies and programs
has helped in making it a relevant and
meaningful advisory to its customers,
and markets. These basics have fuelled
the Company’s emergence as a global
generics player in its product range.
The Company’s research center at
Pragathi Nagar, Hyderabad, spread across
an area of 15,000 square feet, epitomizes
the Company’s focus on research and
development. It mainly focuses on fullscale generic API development.
With a vision to look beyond the
obvious, Granules India made regular
investments in R&D initiatives to develop
items for enhancing intellectual
wealth as well as commercialising
a wide variety of quality products
in diversified therapeutic areas. The
Granules Research Centres (in-house
R&D) have helped the Company in
identifying opportunities and turned
them into distinctive differentiated
growth drivers. It also enabled the
Company to make brave choices in
terms of overhauling and expanding
pipeline with meaningful targets along
with revitalising the growth of our
short term and long term business and
scientific goals.
The scientific talent pool at Granules
has not only helped the Company
in commercialising cost effective
yet quality products for the targeted
market, but has also helped in
widening its portfolio through
innovative products.
Granules Pharmaceutical Inc., which
is Granules’ 100% wholly-owned
subsidiary in Chantilly, Virginia,
focuses on formulation R&D. It
emphasises on products with specific
release properties, ODTs and DEA
controlled substances. Thus allowing
the Company to enhance its product
portfolio with value-added complex
generics.
Quality and Compliance
At Granules, the belief is that there’s no
shortcut to quality in the business of
manufacturing drugs. It has constantly
strived to produce products that meet
the global quality standards, enabling
the Company to create a name for
itself and gain customer’s confidence.
In order to fulfil the Company’s
commitment of delivering high quality
products, it follows the global quality
standards at every step of product
development. In addition to that,
the Company constantly undertakes
regular quality risk assessment and risk
mitigation processes to never fall short
of the standard benchmark.
The Company has in place a team
of highly qualified professionals with
significant industry experience, who
help the Company in maintaining
its required quality standards along 

with enhancing the same. It follows
the philosophy of Continual Product
Improvement and at every step takes
adequate measures to maintain the
required status. Its manufacturing
facilities are also set up in accordance
to the industry quality standards. The
Company’s commitment to quality
maintenance has earned the Company
approval from global regulators such
as US FDA, EU, MHRA, WHO GMP,
INFARMED and many more.
Operational Excellence
Granules has designed a very successful
Operational Excellence (OE) program,
which continues to deliver sustainable
results for maximizing the growth of
the Company. It has taken a multi-year,
multi-project OE initiative for building
technical excellence. Its OE program
consists of three phases: Diagnostic,
Design, and Implementation. The
Company’s OE program began in the
year 2009. The objective of the OE
team was to understand, identify, and
develop projects that are supposed to
fulfil the operational efficiencies and
improvements that were identified
during the Diagnostic Phase. With
the approval and evaluation of the
projects, it has formed teams that
would work together to execute the
project and implement the plans. The
duration of the projects depend on
the level of complexity, as they may
vary from 3-4 months to more than a
year.
The operational excellence (OE) team
continues to bolster the Company’s
competitive advantage of efficient high
volume manufacturing. The OE Team
helps increase production flexibility,
improves customer responsiveness,
and minimises costs. OE provides a
direct channel to improving output, in
which thinking and doing is perfectly
positioned to deliver transformational
results. Granules keeps on employing
the best practices in key disciplines
in order to progress towards its goal
of building efficient and effective
operations. It acknowledges and
understands that the path to
achievement of goals is not a onetime venture; hence we cultivate a
culture of continuous improvement.
Human Capital
A team of competent, productive and
enthusiastic employees forms the
basis of Granules India’s commercial
success. Our people strategy is
embedded in our business and is
driven by our corporate values. The
Company has built a core strength
team of motivated and committed
professionals who have in store vast
experience and expertise in areas
such as chemistry, R&D, process
engineering, manufacturing, quality
control, assurance and logistics.
For further development of our team,
the company conducted crossfunctional workshops for promotion
and harmonisation of employees
across different functions. These
policies, practices and processes
have been institutionalized by the
HR function and are practiced
unequivocally by the entire
organization. The Company also has
in place different teams to monitor
the performance of other teams along
with looking after the health, safety
and security of the employees, so that
they can work together and perform
better. The Company’s total employee
strength as on March 31, 2018 stands
at 2,602.
Talking points 2017-18
• The Company initiated commercial
production of Metaformin and
Paracetamol API at Bonthapally
facility post completion of its
expansion plan initiated during FY17.
• The new PFI block at Gagillapur for
6000 MTA was commercialised
during the year.
• The Company filed 4 US DMFs
increasing the total USDMF filings
with the USFDA to 21.
• One new CEP was filed by the
Company taking the total CEPs
filed with EDQM to 11.

Total EDMFs filed increased to 6
out of which 2 were filed in FY18.
• Out of 20 ANDA filings with
the U.S. FDA, the Company
successfully received approval for
7 ANDAs.
• The site inspection for GGP, JDM
and Virginia completed by US
FDA and Establishment Inspection
Report was also issued.
• The Company successfully
completed Qualified Institutional
Placement of H300 crores.
• The Company received first
product approval for USpharma
portfolio.
Internal Control Systems and
Adequacy
The Company has adequate systems
of internal control and procedures
covering all financial and operating
functions commensurate with the
size and nature of operations. The
Company believes that a strong
internal control framework is one of
the most important pillars of Corporate
Governance. Continuous efforts are
being made to see that the controls
are designed to provide a reasonable
assurance with regard to the
maintenance of accounting controls
and assets from unauthorised use or
losses. The audit committee looks
into all aspects of internal functioning
and advises corrective action as and
when required.
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements in the Management
Discussion and Analysis, describing
the Company’s objectives, and
predictions may be ‘forward-looking
statements’, within the meaning of
applicable laws and regulations. Actual
results may vary significantly from
forward looking statements contained
in this document due to various risks
and uncertainties. These risks and
uncertainties include the effect of
economic and political conditions in
India, volatility in interest rates, new
regulations and Government policies
that may impact the Company’s
business as well as its ability to
implement strategies. The Company
does not undertake endeavours to
update these statements.


