Company Overview
Granules India Limited is a large-scale vertically integrated
Company founded in 1991 manufacturing Active
Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API), Pharmaceutical Formulation
Intermediate (PFI) and Finished Dosage (FD). The Company
over the years has created a strong presence in ‘the first line of
defence’ products such as Paracetamol, Ibuprofen, Metformin,
Methocarbamol, and Guaifenesin.
With a vision “to be the global leader in pharmaceutical
manufacturing by process innovation and unparalleled
efficiencies,” the Company has worldwide services to over 250
customers across 60+ countries. With exports comprising over
81% of total revenue, Granules today is a preferred partner for
some of the world’s leading pharma branded and generics
companies. It has one of the largest PFI and single site FD
facilities in the world. It is also home to one of the World’s
largest Paracetamol API facilities.
Global Pharma Industry
Global healthcare spending is expected to grow at 5%
annually between 2019 and 2023.This acceleration is likely
to be driven by a variety of factors such as expanding
healthcare coverage in emerging markets, growing needs of
current pandemic situation, new treatment methods, ageing,
population and increasing labor wages. Global spending on
medicines stood at about US$1.0 trillion in 2019, which is
likely to grow at 3-6% to about US$1.1 trillion by 2024. The
key drivers of growth will continue to be the United States and
Emerging markets with 4−7% and 5–8% compound annual
growth, respectively. In the United States, overall spending
growth is driven by a range of factors including new product
uptake and brand pricing, while it is offset by patent expiries
and generics. In Europe, cost-containment measures and less
growth from new products contribute to slower growth of
1−4%, compared to the 4.7% compound annual growth seen
over the past five years. Pharmaceutical spending in China is
expected to reach $140−170 billion by 2023, but its growth is
likely to slow to 3−6%. The Global Pharmaceutical Sector in a
span of few years, become one of the largest sectors; both in
terms of revenue and employment. The industry has shown
an uptick in growth, given the increasing consumer healthcare
spending, significant change in the disease patterns in the last
few decades and larger focus from different private and public
entities to address healthcare needs.
Regulated markets
The US market accounts for 37-39% of Indian formulation exports.
More than 50% of India’s incremental exports over the past five
fiscals was to the US. Over fiscals 2013-16, exports growth was
at a strong ~18% CAGR, driven by patent expiry of blockbuster
drugs over 2012-14. However, growth fell to ~2% CAGR over
fiscals 2016-19 on account of pricing pressures experienced
during fiscals 2017 and 2018. Fiscal 2019 has been a year of
recovery with abating pricing pressures and players moving away
from conventional generics to limited competition molecules.
Exports growth remained at double digits in fiscal 2020 as well
on back of new launches, especially limited competition, and
complex drugs. Crisil expect formulation exports to the country
to increase at ~12-13% CAGR over the next five years as pricing
pressure normalizes and manufacturers look at niche molecules,
specialty drugs, complex generics, and biosimilars
Export momentum to European markets to continue
During the past five years, pharma exports to European
markets clocked a slower 6-7% CAGR owing to stricter pricing
regulations and adverse currency movements. Even the
United Kingdom (UK) and Germany, which traditionally had
less stringent pricing mechanisms, introduced regulations to
control the government’s healthcare expenditure.
However, we estimate pharma exports grew ~11% in fiscal 2020.
Sharp currency depreciation has also aided the exports. CRISIL
expect healthy growth in formulation exports to Europe over the
next five years on rising generic penetration in the UK, France,
and Germany, among others. Easing of pricing pressure would
also aid growth in these markets. High incidence of chronic
diseases, an ageing population, and adoption of specialty
medicines are set to drive growth in the European markets.

Generic players increasing focus on semi-regulated
markets
India’s pharma exports to semi-regulated markets are
expected to post 5-6% CAGR over the next five years to touch
~$9 billion in fiscal 2025, as players eye growth opportunities
in newer markets with low generic penetration. The semiregulated markets are characterized by lower penetration of
healthcare facilities, low per capita consumption of medicines,
high population growth rates, a wide base of patients with
acute and chronic diseases, and low penetration of generics.
Many markets also exhibit disease profiles like those in India.
In terms of medicine consumption, these markets are mainly
driven by low-cost generics.
Region-wise, Africa and Asia (accounting for 83% of the semiregulated markets) will remain key markets The African market
is expected to continue to dominated by Indian companies
as they have already established a large footprint in drug
therapies such as anti-viral and anti-malarial.
The demand for the treatment of chronic diseases will boost
generics offtake due to limited budgets and high out-ofpocket expenditure involved in branded generic products
in the semi-regulated markets. The Covid-19 pandemic has
resulted in poor economic health of these nations, which may
result in lower off-take in tender business.
Industry Challenges and Regulatory boost
The recent supply disruption in the wake of the coronavirus
pandemic has resulted in the government taking proactive
steps to boost domestic manufacturing and bring down the
costs. A regulatory boost, along with strong process chemistry
skills will continue to help the Indian bulk drugs industry
garner a big share of the global bulk drug exports pie.
Recent Disruption due to COVID-19
Pharmaceutical industry being part of the essential commodities
was given special permission by Indian government to operate
with minimal manpower and maintaining social distancing.
After the initial interruption, in supply-chain and imposition
of export restriction on certain select products. Government
has supported the industry to run their productions with
complete cautious approach about the health and safety of
their employees. However, the detailed impact of this global
pandemic has affected the Indian Pharma industries in many
areas which are listed below:


Lower sea/cargo capacity is likely to impact sales in semi-regulated markets
Also, cost of exports have gone up now
The transportation of anciallary supplies like packaging materials, bottle caps have also been
affected
Delayed foreign inspections by USFDA will lead to a delay in pre-approval inspections and
clearances of major plants under OAI/warning letters of Indian players
This would, in turn, lead to a delay in approvals of key products for Indian players
On the other hand, fewer approvals would also mean less competition in existing products
An extended lockdown in US means fall in MR visits to doctors, which would result in slower take-up
of new products
Also, the lockdown would likely result in slower adoption of biosimilars as doctors may not switch
the innovator drug during lockdown period
Slower exports would bring down revenue growth for most players for fiscal 2021
Weakness in Emerging market currencies such as Brazilian real and Russian ruble, will impact
earning for players
Rupee depreciation, however, should provide some support

Promotion of Bulk Drug Parks Production Linked Incentive Scheme
Decision is to develop 3 mega Bulk Drug parks in India
in partnership with States.
Government of India will give Grants-in-Aid to States
with a maximum limit of Rs. 1000 Crore per Bulk Drug
Park.
Parks will have common facilities such as solvent
recovery plant, distillation plant, power & steam units,
common effluent treatment plant etc.
A sum of Rs. 3,000 crore has been approved for this
scheme for next 5 years.
Financial incentive will be given to eligible
manufacturers of identified 53 critical bulk drugs on
their incremental sales over the base year (2019-20) for
a period of 6 years.
Out of 53 identified bulk drugs, 26 are fermentation
based bulk drugs and 27 are chemical synthesis based
bulk drugs.
Rate of incentive will be 20 % (of incremental sales
value) for fermentation based bulk drugs and 10% for
chemical synthesis based bulk drugs.
A sum of Rs. 6,940 crore has been approved for next 8
years.

The Union Cabinet, on March 21, 2020, approved schemes
for the development of the Indian bulk drug sector. The State
Implementing Agencies (SIA) will work on developing bulk
drug parks and the target is to set up 3 mega Bulk Drug Parks.
The Production Linked Incentive Scheme will be implemented
through a Project Management Agency (PMA) to be nominated
by the Department of Pharmaceuticals. The Scheme will be
applicable only for manufacturing of 53 identified critical bulk
drugs (KSMs/Drug Intermediates and APIs).
One of the major factors for China’s dominance in bulk drugs
is the regulatory support it gets from its government, with
common facilities across plants and various subsidies being
provided, which helps them bring down the cost considerably.
With the newly announced schemes, the Indian government
is also looking at creating common infrastructure facilities and
reduce dependence on some critical drugs
India Pharmaceutical Industry
The Indian pharmaceutical industry has achieved tremendous
growth over the past few decades and has been instrumental
in supplying generic drugs to the global market. India fulfils
20 per cent of global demand for generic medicines in
terms of volume and supplies over 60 per cent of the global
demand for various vaccines and Antiretroviral (ARV) drugs.
The pharmaceutical industry is indeed a sector of pride
for India today. The backbone of Indian pharmaceutical
industry is the bulk drugs industry, and, in the past, a welldeveloped bulk drugs manufacturing sector ensured that
India remained self-dependent for its intermediates and
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). India’s bulk drug
sector continuously innovated to supply high-quality, costcompetitive intermediates and APIs to both the domestic and
international markets.
Globally, India is one of the top suppliers of bulk drugs and
formulations. Its pharmaceutical exports are expected to
reach USD19 billion - USD21 billion in 2019-20. The country
also has the highest number of US FDA approved plants (665)
2nd outside of the US as well as 44% of global abbreviated
new drug applications (ANDA). The Indian generics industry
can benefit substantially from the patent cliff as patents for
branded molecules with cumulative global sales of over USD
251 billion are expected to expire between 2018 and 2024,
opening new opportunities for the industry.
Bulk Drugs: -
Bulk drug exports, which rose ~7% CAGR during fiscals 2008
to 2013, decelerated sharply to 1.4% CAGR from fiscals 2014
to 2018 because of competition from China and other Asian
countries. Traditionally the Indian pharmaceuticals market
has been a major export hub for bulk drugs owing to low
manufacturing cost. However, with enhancing capability of
Chinese players, especially in the intermediates space, along
with significantly lower production cost, Indian bulk drug
manufacturers have lost market share in recent years. Further,
because of the patent cliff (when many patents expired on
innovator drugs) during 2012 to 2014 many Indian players who
manufactured key patent molecules recorded a substantial
decline in revenue.

But in fiscal 2019, bulk drug exports increased ~10% onyear on the back of a short-term opportunity in the export
market because of supply disruption from China. Chinese
players have been forced to shift their manufacturing facilities
inland and outside the cities as the government continues to
crack down on polluting industries. With this, overall supply
of bulk drugs from China was impacted. However, though
Chinese capacities are slowly coming back online, the cost
competitiveness of Chinese players would reduce to a certain
extent going forward as their cost of production increases. This
would continue to provide some short-term opportunity for
Indian players in the near term.
Bulk Drug exports outlook
Despite the pick-up in bulk drug exports, the share of bulk
drugs in the export basket will continue to shrink over the
next five years as formulation exports are expected to grow at
a faster pace of 7-8% CAGR during fiscals 2019 to 2024. The
reason for the faster growth in formulation exports is because
of players climbing up the value chain.
India needs to proactively boost the manufacturing of
APIs, intermediates and KSMs in the country and reduce
dependence on imports. This move becomes crucial in the
context of the recent coronavirus pandemic. The Indian API
industry needs a clear road map with defined action points,
priorities, and milestones, along with a favourable environment
to grow, sustain and reach the desired goal.
Indian Formulation Export
India’s formulation exports to increase at 10-11% compound
annual growth rate (CAGR) from fiscals 2020-25, compared
with ~6-7% CAGR over the previous five years. Manufacturers
launching complex and specialty drugs and those receiving
limited competition drug approvals would enjoy higher
growth. Incremental revenue for formulation exporters would
be supported by new launches in the conventional generics
segment. Given this significant role played by Indian players
in the US pharmaceutical market, Indian manufacturers have
been under US FDA scrutiny to ensure that cGMP practices
are followed across all plants manufacturing drugs for the
US market. To increase competition in the market, US FDA
has significantly ramped up the pace of product approvals
under the Generic Drug User Fee Act (GDUFA). The increased
competition has led to significant price erosion impacting per
product economics in the market. On the other hand, this will
also help companies like us in getting faster approvals and
expand our portfolio offering.
Overview About Company
Granules India Limited continuous to be focussing on
manufacturing excellence and process innovation to increase
the volume of its core molecules in India to get the optimum
leverage of the economies of scale and carefully choosing
high value and high growth products as its launch strategy in
US.
Its persistent focus on process innovation has rightly made
it as one of the leading manufacturers of high-volume
pharmaceutical products in the world
Following are the key unique value propositions that has made
Granules India an unique entity:
• Sustainable base of First line of defence products; limited
competition with respect to integration; presence across
Rx and OTC.
• Presence across the Value chain APIs, PFI’s and FD’s
which builds in efficiencies at multiple levels and ensure
securities of supply
• Strong regulatory history: Quality and regulatory
compliance built into Granules DNA
• Focus R&D for Sustainable Portfolio with combination of
high-volume molecules and complex products
Historically, Granules was present in a business which was
driven by volume-based products till there was a shift in the
Company’s vision for the future and it was decided to enhance
the product offerings with differentiated product portfolio.
Towards this strategy, it set up a Research and Development
centre in Hyderabad. To complement the strategy, it acquired
a USFDA approved facility, thereby widening its API portfolio

and gaining access to a multi-product API manufacturing
facility in Vizag. As a part of Emerging business division,
Granules India invested INR 285 crores to auxiliary growth
engine towards Multi API and Oncology in Vizag Unit V which
is fully integrated facility to offer API (onco and Non onco) and
Finished Dosage in Onco therapeutics, a top growth segment,
is operational and received European approval. In a forward
integration step towards formulations, the Company acquired
a formulation R&D and manufacturing facility in Virginia, US
to develop products with varied complexities and file its own
ANDAs in the US market.
During the year Granules India in order to strengthen our
current strategy and focus on our core capabilities and
generate free cash, decided to divest both joint ventures.
CRAMS is not our core strength and getting out of this
will help us in focusing on our current strategy which had
evolved differently from the time of the beginning of Granules
Omnichem. The company has received a consideration of
INR109.85 crores from sale of this JV. Granules India entered
the JV agreement with Bio-cause in the year 2007 to ensure a
consistent supply of Ibuprofen API. The JV had worked well all

these years and in times of shortages, Granules India benefited
by these supplies. However, the ever-increasing environmental
compliance standards in China had led to the JV investing
heavily in CAPEX and this continue in future too. Granules
India has de-risked its Ibuprofen API supply by developing
alternative vendor and also signed long term supply contract
with the existing company and decided to divest its stake in
Granules bio-cause and received a purchase consideration of
INR 112.34 crores
We have six manufacturing facilities; five plants are located
in India and one in the US. Our API facilities are located at
Bonthapally, Jeedimetla and Vizag. The Bonthapally unit
manufactures Paracetamol API, also commonly known as
Acetaminophen. The Jeedimetla unit manufactures Metformin,
Guaifenesin, and Methocarbamol APIs. The Jeedimetla plant
also has a PFI manufacturing facility. Through acquisition of
Auctus Pharmaceuticals, we have taken over a multi-product
API manufacturing facility at Vizag and an intermediary
manufacturing facility at Bonthapally. The Gagillapur unit
manufactures PFIs and Finished Dosages.

Our core strengths
Integrated business model: Over the years Granules has
evolved itself from just an API manufacturer to a company
that has a strong presence across the value chain in the
pharmaceutical industry, thus establishing itself as a complete
global pharmaceutical player with presence in APIs, PFIs and
FD. Now we have forward integrated Granules consumer
health and Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc as front end sales
and marketing division in US for OTC and Rx products.
Experienced Management Team: The company has worked
towards strengthen the Board with members with significant
experience and who have helped in the growth of different
global pharmaceutical companies as well has enriching the
Management team with key executives with deep industry
experience. This will further strengthen the Company’s
foundations as it launches into the next phase of growth.
Global Presence: Granules’ has a presence in more than 60
countries; the Company caters to more than 250 clients across
the globe. Its strong manufacturing capabilities coupled with
customer centricity have helped achieved this spread.
Economies of Scale: It possesses industry leading batch size
for manufacturing PFIs and among the largest in APIs in its core
business product portfolio. This large-scale production helps it
to reduce production costs and manufacture efficiently.
Customer Relationships: The company has been able to
create and sustain strong relationship with globally major
pharmaceutical players. This has helped it strengthen its
revenue model. It has its own ANDAs and dossiers, which
makes it possible for customers to enter markets with highquality and cost-effective products.

State-of-the-art manufacturing: With a constant focus on getting the best technologically advanced operational facilities, the
company has time and again revamped its operating facilities. Thus, today the Company possesses state-of-the-art manufacturing
facilities which have helped the company gain its customer confidence over a period of time.
Business Review
Building own expertise is primary objective of Granules India in delivering solutions to its esteemed global customers. The
Company’s offerings can be broadly classified into three categories cutting across API, PFI’s and Formulation businesses
Deriving our significant value from our core strength of vertically backward integrated, strong R&D and state of the art manufacturing
facilities enable Granules India to evolve its business and set its next leap of growth

Key Business Verticals
Granules India Limited
Originated in 1984 and incorporated in 1991, this is the only
listed entity in the group, with 3 plants located in Hyderabad
(Jeedimetla, Bonthapally and Gagillapur) and 2 units in Vizag
Pharma City
API
Granules is one of the most cost-effective and efficient
manufacturers of APIs. It is also one of the global leaders in the
manufacturing of Paracetamol, Metformin, Guaifenesin, and
Methocarbamol.
Over the years the Company adopted several measures, like
setting up of a new in-house R&D centre at Hyderabad and the
acquisition of Auctus Pharma, to extend its product offerings
in the API space.
Use of advanced technology, a dedicated team, and a critical
backward integration process, have cumulatively enabled
Granules to consistently meet the customer demands with quality.
To further consolidate it position for its core products, Granules
has completed the expansion of its API manufacturing capacities
for Paracetamol, Metformin and Guaifenesin. Presently, the
API business accounts for 31% of the Company’s revenue. We
added three more molecules to our core portfolio in FY20 

Pharmaceutical Formulation Intermediates (PFI)
Granules India Limited was a pioneer in breaking the early
1990s’ trend of inefficient PFI production which caused high
operational costs to the clients. The Company today is one
of the largest PFI producers of India and over time has been
successful in building a batch processing capability of 6 tons.
This has given the company a sustainable competitive edge in
terms of economies of scale and cost advantages. Presently,
the PFI business accounts for 16% of the Company’s revenue.
One unique feature of the PFIs produced by Granules is
that it can be directly taken to the hoppers from the drums.
The Company through its PFI facilities at Jeedimetla and
Gagillapur processes these intermediates to be compressed
into Finished Dosages.
Advantages of Granules PFIs
Reduced development costs for vendors: Single vendor
architecture for different processes and materials, used for
manufacturing PFIs has resulted in substantial savings for
Granules’ customers. It also helped us by simplifying the
supply chain management process.
Lower testing costs: In order to minimize the testing costs of
the customers, the Company has taken the onus upon itself
to deliver products of superior quality. Thus, allowing the
customers to conduct lesser tests, this in turn saved substantial
amount of testing costs for them.
Strong technical knowledge: Leveraging more than three
decades of its industry experience, Granules over the years
have built up strong technical expertise and knowledge. This

has not only helped the Company stay ahead of the curve
but also help gains its customer trust along with enabling its
customers to save in terms of expenditure on pre-formulation
studies and development processes.
Reduction of capital expenditure: Since setting up a PFI
manufacturing facility requires incurring capital expenditure,
by procuring the PFIs from Granules India, the customers can
reduce their expenditure by a great extent.
Provide desired release properties: Customers get access to
PFIs, which can be developed to provide release properties,
similar to brand leaders. This makes it possible for Finished
Dosage manufacturers to get favourable outcomes from their
bioequivalence studies.

Finished Dosages (FD)
The formulations business contributes 52% to the Company’s
revenues. The Company manufactures caplets, tablets as well
as press-fits capsules in bulk, blister packs and bottles. These
products are manufactured in Gagillapur, which possesses
automated process, robust infrastructure, and markets them
in over 60+ countries including developed markets such
as the US and Europe. The Company further strengthen its
competitive advantage by providing Bi-layered tablets, Rapid
release tablets and Extended Release (ER) tablets. During the
year, the Company filed 12 ANDAs in FY20 and launched 5
products.

Granules India Limited received US FDA approval in FY20
• Acetaminophen 650 mg, Extended Release Tablets.
• Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets
• Guaifenesin ER Tablets, 600 mg, and 1200 mg (OTC)
• Loratadine Tablets USP, 10 mg (OTC).
Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc:
• Fully integrated infrastructure from R&D, manufacturing
to sales and marketing enabling “Make in America” (TAA
compliance for Govt.business).
• US FDA approved facility in Virginia with a team strength
of 90+. 100,000 sft facility with established R&D and
Manufacturing capabilities with all necessary approvals
for development and manufacturing of controlled
substances.
• Balanced product portfolio, combination of internal
capabilities and market dynamics.
• Strategic portfolio selection focusing on limited
competition products across oral solids; tablets, capsules,
oral solids, and powder for oral solutions Business to
Consumer front end sales and marketing for Rx & OTC
product. Expects 8-9 launches in FY21 with an addressable
market size of about 2.5bn USD based on IQVIA*
Granules Pharmaceuticals, Inc. received US FDA approval
in FY20 for the following products
• Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release
capsules.
• Amphetamine Sulphate Tablets
• Valganciclovir Hydrochloride for Oral Solution
• Colchicine Tablets used for the treatment of Familial
Mediterranean Fever (FMF) and Colchicine Capsules, 0.6
mg
• Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Tablets USP
Research and Development
From being known as a leading supplier of APIs and PFI’s
in bulk, we moved on to become a leading manufacturer of
finished dosage forms. Over the years, we have been constantly
investing in Research and Development, where our team has
been able to passionately translate science and technology
into pharmaceutical products and manufacturing processes,
meeting global regulatory standards. With experienced,
and qualified human resources our R&D capabilities are the
driving forces of our current momentum and future growth of
the organisation. With innovation instilled into culture of the
company at various levels, R&D is a crucial attribute in fostering
our vision to become a global leader in the pharmaceutical
manufacturing process.
We are augmenting our research capabilities and expanding
our product portfolio to address the prospective demand
across global markets. From a commercial perspective, our
strategic product, process, and market approaches give us a
competitive advantage which will enable us to be an integrated
player offering both drug substance and the drug product.

2019-20 - Highlights
Core Business: The core business has always remained our focal
point, while we are constantly expanding our product portfolio
and global presence with focus on high volume products built on
maximizing process efficiencies and vertical integration. Our core
products, Paracetamol, Metformin HCl, Ibuprofen, Guaifenesin
and Methocarbamol have remained a priority.
Emerging Business: Product selection process for our
“Emerging business,” focuses on identifying and developing
high entry barrier products, with varied complexities at API
and/ or formulation stage. We have developed APIs that cover
a broad spectrum of therapeutic categories and expanded
capabilities into the segment of oncology with our state-ofthe-art facility at Vishakhapatnam.
As on 31 Mar 2020, we filed Total 20 (3 in FY 19-20) U.S. Drug
Master Files (“USDMFs”) across several therapeutic categories
with the United States Food and Drug Administration (“U.S.
FDA”) in the United States, 16 (3 in FY 19-20) Certificates of
Suitability (“CEPs”) with the European Directorate for the
Quality of Medicines (“EDQM”) and 7 European Drug Master
Files (“EDMFs”) (1 in FY 19-20) in Europe, along with other
regulatory filings in key regulated markets to support potential
customers for ANDA and dossier filings. As part of our portfolio
strategy of vertical integration, we intend to file ANDAs for
several of these APIs to forward integrate into FDFs.
In finished dosage form, we filed 44 (12 in FY 19-20) ANDAs
with the U.S. FDA of which 26 ANDAs have been approved and
18 are under review. We aim to continue this momentum by
continue to identify, execute development, and file complex
products within the oral immediate release, extended release,
delayed release, MUPS, powders and suspensions dosages.
Over the last financial year (2019-20) we were able to file
our first Oncology Molecule (USDMF), from our Oncology
site (Unit V, Vishakhapatnam) along with 7 other DMF’s (3
US DMFs, 3 CEPs and 1 EU DMF) for API’s. Our formulation
filings included 12 ANDAs (US Market) and 3 MA Applications
(Europe) submitted to respective regulatory authorities (FDA,
EDQM and EMA). 18 ANDA applications are under review.
Granules received 13 ANDA approvals (11 Final Approvals +
2 Tentative Approvals) in the financial year (2019-2020). This
on time approvals exemplify quality of our ANDA filings. With
further commitment and focus on R&D, we hope to increase
the number of filings (API & Formulations) and approvals
across the globe for the coming financial year as well.
We aim to continue this momentum by executing development
of products from our pipeline of complex technology products
within the immediate release, extended release, delayed
release, MUPS (Multiple-Unit Pellet System), powders and
suspensions dosages.
We have also embarked upon our journey to build Granules’
intellectual property assets. Granules currently holds 66 patent
filings globally, in which 6 granted, 1 pending to grant and 56
patent applications are at various stages of prosecution in
various countries. In FY 2019-20, we filed 3 patent applications
in India. These inventions were primarily directed towards
new process for manufacturing intermediates and /or APIs,
pharmaceutical composition thereof.
Way Forward
We will continue to leverage our knowledge and experience
in our core products to expand them into new markets and
dosage forms. This would not only help us to bring economies
of scale, but also, mitigate market concentration risk. Taking
steps in this direction during the financial year, we filed three
dossiers in European market and working to file in additional
markets in coming year.
We will continue to identify and develop complex products
with limited competition, and continuously bring process
efficiencies for our existing products to have competitive
advantage in the market.
We look forward to making considerable progress in building
our technical capabilities within the Oncology space and
ensure process development, validations, and furthermore
regulatory filings.
Operational Excellence
Granules India has designed a very successful Operational
Excellence (OE) program, which continues to deliver sustainable
results for maximizing the growth of the Company. It has taken a
multi-year, multi-project OE initiative. A 4-tier approach is being
implemented to build OE capability in our manufacturing units
through White Belt, Yellow Belt, Green belt, and Black Training
based on the roles. We adopted application-oriented approach
wherein every certification included training participation,
written test for Body of Knowledge and an improvement project.
Employees took simple kaizen improvement to complex
problem-solving using OE tools. Our leadership team also
visited companies with matured OE program to learn concepts
and understand culture. The benefits from such project were

in the area of Capacity enhancement, Cost reduction and
Yield improvement resulting in annualised financial benefits of
approximately INR 10.0 Crores. One such improvement project
was presented in a CII Kaizen Competition and won the second
prize. Our OE program is designed in line with company’s
mission of “Efficient Manufacturing”.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
The company has adopted Enterprise wide Risk Management
(ERM) framework to identify, prioritise and monitor top rated
business risks.
Based on interviews with the key business stake holders,
leveraging internal knowledge repository and using industry
benchmark data related to the similar risks, top 10 risks of
the company has been highlighted. The Board has created a
Risk committee to evaluate, manage and monitor major risk
of the company on an ongoing basis. The risk committee
also evaluates the residual risk and the strategic risk that the
company has to live with as its risk appetite. The company has
defined a process through which it monitors its present risk
profile and risk appetite to re-prioritise some of the risks as
part of long-term risk mitigation plan.
The below table summarises the top 10 risks identified by the
company.
1. Operational/ Reputational- Risk of business and
reputational loss, regulatory action due to Cyber Security
breach.
2. Operational - Risk in absence of Business continuity, IT
infrastructure and data privacy framework
3. Operational/ Reputational - Risks of non-conformity of
quality parameters for raw materials and final products
4. Strategic - Risk of plant dependency, product, and
customer concentration risk
5. Operational - Risk of dependency on single source vendor
for key raw materials
6. Strategic - Risk of pledging of shares as collateral against
the loans
7. Strategic - Risk in absence of strategy for Developing and
marketing new products
8. Operational – Risk in absence of succession planning,
High attrition, and Talent availability
9. Strategic - Risk in absence of adoption of vision and
business plan / strategies across businesses and
management levels
10. Compliance/Litigation- Risk of Regulatory action and
reputational loss for Statutory non compliances, noncompliances with client contracts
The Risk committee has taken up some items from above as a
priority and are working towards a detailed remediation plan
and monitor the same in each quarter.
Human Capital
At Granules, the Company believes that people who feel truly
associated with the organisation are the ones who perform
to their true potential. As a core part of our business strategy,
it is committed to providing an environment where all of its
employees feel enabled and have a sense of belonging.
This year we conducted “Employee Engagement Survey”
(Pratibimb) to understand engagement levels of employee.
Based on the feedback a few important initiatives were
undertaken including Employee Recognition Program and
Women Employee Connect Program.
Our new Performance Management System connects
company’s objectives with Unit as well as individual employees
goals up to managerial level through rigorous review process.
This enables our employees to work on even stretch targets
while meeting company’s objectives. This year was focussed
on strengthening leadership team through internal job
rotation process and external recruitment.
Two years back, we have undertaken Self Directed Team (SDTs)
initiative to provide livelihood opportunity to young 10+2
students from rural areas of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. They
are being recruited through a rigorous but structured selection
process. They undergo two-month Pharmaceutical Manufacturing
Training and two months On the Job Training before. These SDTs
are now efficiently working in various functions in the company.
This program continues to be Granules engine for deployment
of grass-root level employees. The Company’s total employee
strength as on March 31, 2020, stands at 3029.

Profit and Loss Account
Revenue from operations Revenue was driven by double-digit growth. Primary growth is driven by Finished dosages. Through
the year, more customers moved up the value chain from APIs to PFIs and Finished Dosages, which Granules expects will continue.
EBIDTA The Company improved its EBIDTA margin 337 bps over the prior year. The Company was able to improve EBIDTA due
to higher capacity utilization at its facilities and a more favorable product mix including an increased emphasis on formulations.
Dividend: The Board proposed a 25% dividend for 2019-20 to be approved by the shareholders at the ensuing Annual General
Meeting in addition to interim dividend of 75% paid during the year. 

Balance Sheet
Shareholders’ Funds
Shareholders’ funds increased 20.5% over the previous year due to an increase in the reserves and surplus balance.
Loan Funds decreased while the sales have been increased, due to effective management of working capital. While debt reduced,
the Company’s net debt to equity ratio of 0.3x which is healthy.

COVID-19
COVID 19 Pandemic has caused widespread disruption to
various businesses across the globe. The Indian Government
had announced a lockdown on March 22nd, and this has
caused logistic challenges for a couple of weeks. The business
operations in March was around 25% utilization and we
gradually ramped up to 85% and beyond in April with strict
compliance to government guidelines.
We engaged with international consultants across the globe
for formulating safety, health and social distancing policy for
employees and their families. The total number of people
were limited to only those who are essential and may not be
able to work remotely. Social distancing in canteens and in
Company transport and shift system to reduce density on site.
We worked with our customers to ensure timely delivery
of medicines. We continue to have normal supply levels for

most of our products. We believe that we could supply at our
normal levels throughout the pandemic.
We maintain adequate inventory of raw materials and finished
products across our global supply chain. Safe supply of our
products remains largely uninterrupted.
Most of our critical operations continued throughout the
lockdown at 25% utilization levels. We had minimal impact to
our R&D programs and product launches. Digitalization of work
from home for employees was implemented immediately after
the announcement of the lockdown. We also would like to
emphasize that there were no job losses related to COVID 19.
Quality and Compliance
Granules India Limited always believed in quality of products
and patient safety. This is being achieved through the
implementation of best quality systems, creating a right quality
culture and continuous training of employees. We always had
a vision to be ahead of the curve in business and are investing
significantly in the digitalisation program of the key quality
systems like Laboratory Information Management Systems
(LIMS), Quality Assurance Management Systems (QAMS),
Learning Management System (LMS), SAP enhancements on a
continuous basis to strengthen further. We continue to sustain a
very high level of transparency with our customers, regulators,
statutory bodies, and employees. Our accreditations include
the regulatory approvals from USFDA, MHRA, TGA, Infarmed,
Health Canada, Cofepris, WHO, KFDA, Taiwan FDA, MCC
and Halal. Our new integrated Onco API and Formulations
facility was inspected by the EU regulatory authority in Jan
2020 and is now EUGMP certified. We also had a successful
USFDA inspection for our flagship formulation facility at
Gagillapur in Feb 2020. We have started the implementation
of our very aggressive plans for expanding our quality function
including investments in the laboratories and newer analytical
capabilities and technologies.
Internal Control Systems and Adequacy
Commensurate with the size and nature of operations, the
Company has adequate systems of internal control and
procedures covering all financial and operating functions.
It believes that a strong internal control framework is one of
the most indispensable factors of Corporate Governance.
Continuous efforts are being made to enhance the controlling
system’s response to unauthorised use or losses. The audit
committee supervises all aspects of internal functioning and
advises corrective action as and when required.
Outlook
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis,
describing the Company’s objectives, and predictions may be
‘forward-looking statements’, within the meaning of applicable
laws and regulations. Actual results may vary significantly from
forward-looking statements contained in this document due
to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
include the effect of economic and political conditions in India.