Global Pharma Industry
The Global Pharmaceutical Sector has, in a span of few years,
become one of the largest sectors; both in terms of revenue
and employment. The industry has shown an uptick in growth,
given the increasing consumer healthcare spending, significant
change in the disease patterns in the last few decades and
larger focus from different private and public entities to address
healthcare needs. Additionally, lifestyle changes, economic
reforms and rise of non-communicable diseases have acted as
a catalyst for growth in the health-related products and services.
Socio-economic reforms, rising income levels, and increased
healthcare spend are some of the key drivers for the industry in
the future.
There are few notable trends reshaping the global
pharmaceutical marketplace.
• Instances of chronic disease are increasing, placing even
greater importance on pharmaceutical industry
• Healthcare policy-makers and payers are increasingly
mandating what doctors can prescribe
• Demand for medicines is growing more rapidly in the
emerging economies than the industrialised economies
• Governments are beginning to focus on prevention rather
than treatment
• Regulators are becoming more cautious about approving
new medicines
In the past few years, companies have made significant
investments for sustained R&D to secure their presence for
longer period rather than focusing on short-term gains. Emerging
technologies are creating a transformative opportunity for
life sciences, and scientific achievements are on a record
pace. Research methods are evolving and the industry has
many promising prospects on the horizon. The innovative
pharmaceutical industry both drives and is driven by medical
progress. It aims to turn fundamental research into innovative
treatments that are widely accessible to patients.
The global pharmaceutical market will exceed $1.5 trillion by
2023 growing at a 3−6% compound annual growth rate for over
the next five years. The key drivers of growth will continue to be
the United States and pharmerging markets. In the United States,
overall spending growth is driven by a range of factors including
new product uptake and brand pricing, while it is offset by patent
expiries and generics. Current and ongoing changes in political,
economic, social, technological, legal and environmental factors
are influencing growth in the healthcare market
New products and losses of exclusivity will continue to drive
the growth across developed markets, while product mix will
continue to shift to specialty and orphan products. At the same
time, the impact of losses of exclusivity in developed markets is
expected to be $121 billion between 2019 and 2023, with 80% of
this impact, or $95 billion, in the United States.

Key factors to contribute towards the growth of the healthcare industry Prescription drugs
On the heels of a slow economic recovery, global prescription
drug sales are expected to grow at an impressive annual
compound rate of ~6.5% over the next five years to reach USD
1.06 trillion by 2022. This may be an aggressive growth rate as
compared to the slow growth trend of ~2.2% CAGR achieved
between 2012-2016, but is significantly below the 8.4% CAGR
before the global financial crisis in 2004-2008. This trajectory
could be tempered by the severity of pricing pressures and
potential second patent cliff which could lead to declining sales
and profitability.
The changing political scenarios in US have added to the woes.
Spending on prescription drugs is expected to increase in most
markets over the next few years. Recovery in spending will be
fuelled by consolidation in generics markets and increased
budgets for high-priced treatments.
Healthcare expenditure per capita is set to rise from its 2017 level
of $1,137 to $1,427 by 2021

The industry will continue to explore emerging markets for growth, albeit not as aggressively as in the past. Among the top 20
pharmaceutical markets in the world, eight are emerging countries supported by an increasing middle class. Pharmerging markets
like China and India are expected to reach the top three in the near future. However, constraints could come from government
incentives potentially reducing medication reimbursements and health care costs.
Over The Counter (OTC) drugs market
Over-the-counter medications, also known as non-prescription
drugs, are the medicines that can be procured from the
chemists without a prescription from the doctor. These drugs
are principally used for the treatment of the health conditions
that can be self-medicated. OTC drugs are measured by
government regulatory associations and are considered
to be harmless for self-medication. Some of the common
applications of OTC drugs are aches, pains, itches, and others.
OTC drugs market is poised for the strong growth in the near
future owing to factors like accelerated Rx to OTC switch by the
drug manufacturers, growing tendency of people towards selfmedication in developing regions and cost-saving advantage
to citizens in regions of the Asia Pacific and Latin America are
strongly driving the regional as well as global market.
Valued at around USD 303 billion in 2018, the global OTC
drugs market is estimated to reach USD 491 billion by 2024,
witnessing a CAGR of 8.5%. Growth propelling factors of
this market are product innovations, high penetration in
the emerging market, favorable regulatory framework and
inclination of pharmaceutical companies towards OTC drugs
from Rx drugs.
The OTC drugs market will record the highest growth rate in
the emerging markets of Latin America, and South East Asia
over the coming years. This can be attributed to the rapidly
growing population, coupled with an expanding middle class
in these regions with an increase in disposable new channels
of the accessibility in emerging markets in retail outlets,
supermarkets are also contributing to the growth of the OTC
medication market in the emerging economies.

Industry Challenges
The challenges faced by pharmaceutical companies in the next
few years are manifold. Tomorrow’s challenge is to develop
new medicines that can prevent or cure currently incurable
diseases. Today’s challenge, given the changing global political
and economic scenario is to deliver affordable healthcare to a
rapidly expanding population. The key challenges are:
• Rising customer expectations: The commercial environment
is getting harsher, as healthcare payers impose new
cost constraints on healthcare providers and scrutinise
the value, medicines offer much more carefully. They
want new therapies that are clinically and economically
better than the existing alternatives, together with hard,
real-world outcomes data to back any claims about a
medicine’s superiority.
• Poor scientific productivity: Pharma’s output has remained
at a stable level for the past decade. Using the same
discovering and developing processes, there’s little reason
to think its productivity will suddenly soar.
Market opportunities
In some respects, the pharmaceutical sector has never been
in a better position than it is in today. The tools to develop
remarkable new medicines are materialising, demand for its
products is escalating and trade is getting easier. Collectively
the mature markets generate a majority share of the total
revenues, but they are becoming more difficult places to
prosper. They are demanding better outcomes as a precondition
for paying for new medicines. Financial pressures have played
a part in hardening healthcare payers’ policies. Crushing
demographic and epidemiological factors have compounded
these economic woes.
CRAMS
Global overview
CRAMS is one of the fastest-growing segments in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. It pertains to
outsourcing research services/ manufacturing products to
low-cost providers with world class standards, in line with
international regulatory norms. CRAMS basically consists of
the following two activities. A Contract Research Organisation
(CRO) is an organisation that renders services on a contract
basis in the form of preclinical and clinical research services to
the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. A Contract
Manufacturing Organisation (CMO) is an organisation that
makes pharmaceutical products under contract and delivers its
client with wide range of services from drug development to
manufacture.
The past few years have been highly turbulent for the
pharmaceutical industries particularly in the North American
and European economies, with the operations being severely
impacted by a patent cliff. On top of it, huge investments
followed by low productivity in R&D’s are driving global
pharmaceutical companies to cut costs by outsourcing their
research and manufacturing activities to low cost countries.
The resulting turmoil significantly changed the structure of
global CRAMS industry with countries such as India and
China assuming greater importance in the recent years. The

increasing need for effective and safe drug discovery and
manufacturing has been driving the revenues of global CRAMS
industry and forcing Pharmaceutical multinationals to outsource
manufacture of intermediates, API’s and formulations. CRAMS
companies have become steady suppliers of APIs and
Intermediates used in the manufacture of formulations. The
manufacturing of formulation drugs are carried out by CRAMS
companies at lower costs due to economies-of-scale. CRAMS
companies specialising in research have taken up assignments
in formulation development, drug development or conducting
trials.
India’s position in the global CRAMS space
Once drugs lose patent protection, the focus would shift to
price competitiveness and ensuring manufacture of such
generic drugs in the most cost-effective manner. India is one of
the world’s best known low-cost manufacturing centers, with
highest number of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (US FDA)
approved manufacturing plants outside the US. This is likely to
boost the prospects of Indian CRAMS companies. The Indian
CRAMS segment is estimated to grow over next few years.
The Indian pharmaceutical research industry also benefits from
structural factors such as the presence of a highly-skilled yet
low-cost labour force. As most of the outsourcing to Indian
CRAMS industry is from the western countries where English
is widely spoken and understood, this is a natural advantage
to India as compared to other geographies (China, Vietnam,
among others). R&D costs are increasing and productivity levels
declining in regulated markets. Hence, global pharmaceutical
companies are looking for outsourcing destinations to enhance
their finished drugs portfolio.
Indian pharma industry
The journey of Indian pharma, and its transition from vanilla
generics to specialty segment is encouraging, and at the same
time filled with challenges as Indian companies navigate in
uncharted waters. Especially, choosing differentiated generics
and targeting one of the most stringent markets of the world
in terms of quality, the US, has been very demanding. Staying
profitably relevant in the market is the key as Indian players
are investing on new product and technology acquisitions
or identifying relevant business partners to ensure deeper
penetration in the US market. US is by far the largest and the
most diversified pharmaceutical market in the world. Climbing
the value ladder with the help of specialty generics remains the
obvious choice for the Indian Pharmaceutical sector for further
expansion, as India today stand globally 13th in terms of value
while 3rd in terms of volume. Indian players were placed mostly
in the traditional generic market, which is already crowded.
Additionally, there is an ever increasing competition and pricing
pressure faced from global companies and new US regulatory
policies emphasising on price control measures and repealing
Obama Care are adding more pressure to the existing as well
as new players. Indian companies roughly contribute about 10
% (by value) towards US generic market. The market share of
non-complex generics addressed to US population is just 20%
(by value). With increasing focus the US generic market which
consists of specialty generics, Indian players can sustain strong
growth in long term as huge opportunities exist, going forward.
Inexpensive labor, strong government support, and lower
production costs are some of the compelling reasons behind
the rise in stature of the Indian pharma industry. Although the
number of domestically-owned pharmaceutical companies in
India is not few, but still many multinational pharma behemoths
appear to be taking advantage of the country’s inexpensive
labor through India-based subsidiaries. Lower research and
development (or R&D) and manufacturing costs compared
to other developed nations, is another added advantage for
India. Further, given the government initiatives that support
the pharmaceuticals sector, including fiscal incentives and
streamlined development procedures, has acted as a catalyst
in the process. Cost of production has been a leading source of
India’s industry strength, as India is meaningfully cheaper than
the U.S. and Europe in terms of drug production costs.
The domestic industry’s long-established position as a world
leader in the production of high-quality generic medicines is
set to reap significant new benefits as the patents on a number

of blockbuster drugs are scheduled to expire over the next few
years. In addition, more and more governments worldwide are
seeking to curb their soaring prescription drug costs through
greater use of generics.
Company Overview
About the Company
Founded in 1991, Granules India Limited is a large-scale vertically
integrated Company manufacturing Active Pharmaceutical
Ingredient (API), Pharmaceutical Formulation Intermediate (PFI)
and Finished Dosage (FD). The Company over the years has
created a strong presence in ‘the first line of defence’ products
such as Paracetamol, Ibuprofen, Metformin, Methocarbamol,
and Guaifenesin.
With a vision “to be the global leader in pharmaceutical
manufacturing by process innovation and unparalleled
efficiencies,” the Company has worldwide services to over
250 customers across 60+ countries. With exports comprising
over 75% of total revenue, Granules today is a preferred
partner for some of the world’s leading pharma branded and
generic companies. It has one of the largest PFI and single site
FD facilities in the world. It is also home to one of the World’s
largest Paracetamol API facilities.
Its persistent focus on process innovation has rightly made it as
one of the leading manufacturer of high-volume pharmaceutical
products in the world.
Historically, Granules was present in a business which was
driven by volume-based products till there was a shift in the
Company’s vision for the future and it was decided to enhance
the product offerings with differentiated product portfolio.
Towards this strategy, it set up a Research and Development
center in Hyderabad. To complement the strategy, it acquired a
USFDA approved facility, thereby widening its API portfolio and
gaining access to a multi-product API manufacturing facility in
Vizag. In a forward integration step towards formulations, the
Company acquired a formulation R&D and manufacturing facility
in Virginia, US to develop products with varied complexities
and file its own ANDAs in the US market.
In addition, Granules has ventured into Oncology and high
potent API business as auxiliary growth engines. Granules
entered the CRAMS business through a 50:50 Joint Venture,
Granules-OmniChem, with Ajinomoto OmniChem who brings
nearly 40 years of experience in CRAMS and works with
reputed pharmaceutical companies to make patent protected
products for regulated markets. Going forward, as these
products go off-patent, the customers would be able to retain
market share by shifting to a cost-effective environment and
leveraging Granules’ expertise in efficient manufacturing.
Over the last three years Granules has worked towards building
blocks and invested heavily to fund next growth trajectory
which has enabled it to achieve a growth of nearly 35% in
top line and 78% bottomline in financial year 2019 over the
previous financial year. During the year, Granules saw the first
commercial launch under its own label through its US based
subsidiary Granules Pharmaceutical Inc.
During the year Granules has worked towards broad basing
the Board with members with significant experience and who
have helped in the growth of different global pharmaceutical
companies as well has enriching the Management team with
key executives with deep industry experience. This will further
strengthen the Company’s foundations as it launches into the
next phase of growth.
Presently the Company has seven manufacturing facilities,
six of which are located in India and one in the US. Out of
these six located in India, five are operational and the balance
one, construction is near complete. Through its joint venture
entities, it also has an additional two operational manufacturing
units in India and China. Its overseas markets are as crucial
over 75% of the total turnover generating from export sales
primarily in North America, Europe, and Latin American
countries. Domestic market accounts for approximately 25%
of the business.

Stronger together - Our partners of success
Building long-term relationships are central to Granules
India’s belief system. As part of the core strategy, Granules
continues to pursue strong strategic relationships with other
major global players to strengthen the business and target
new opportunities that extend its capabilities and enables it to
deliver more. Engagement with other major global players in
the market have led to lasting joint ventures for the Company
Our core strengths
Integrated business model: Over the years Granules has evolved
itself from just an API manufacturer to a company that has a
strong presence across the value chain in the pharmaceutical
industry, thus establishing itself as a complete global
pharmaceutical player with presence in APIs, PFIs and FD.
Global Presence: Granules’ has a presence in more than 60
countries; the Company caters to more than 250 clients across
the globe. Its strong manufacturing capabilities coupled with
customer centricity have helped to achieve this spread.
Economies of Scale: It possesses industry leading batch size for
manufacturing PFIs and among the largest in APIs in its core
business product portfolio. This large scale production helps it to
reduce production costs and manufacture efficiently.
State-of-the-art-manufacturing: With a constant focus on getting the
best technologically advanced operational facilities, the company
has time and again revamped its operating facilities. Thus today
the Company possesses state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities
which have helped the company gain its customer confidence
over a period of time.
Business verticals
The primary objective of Granules India is delivering solutions
to its esteemed global customers. The Company’s offerings
can be broadly classified into three verticals.
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API)
Granules is one of the most cost-effective and efficient
manufacturers of APIs. It is also one of the global leaders in the
manufacturing of Paracetamol, Metformin, Guaifenesin, and
Methocarbamol.
Over the years the Company adopted a number of measures,
like setting up of a new in-house R&D centre at Hyderabad
and the acquisition of Auctus Pharma, to extend its product
offerings in the API space.
Use of advanced technology, a dedicated team, and a critical
backward integration process, have cumulatively enabled
Granules to consistently meet the customer demands with
quality.
To further cement it position for its core products, Granules has
completed the expansion of its API manufacturing capacities
for Paracetamol, Metformin and Guaifenesin. Presently, the API
business accounts for 36% of the Company’s revenue.

Pharmaceutical Formulation Intermediates (PFI)
Granules India Limited was a pioneer in breaking the early 1990s’
trend of inefficient PFI production and caused high operational
costs to the clients. The Company today is one of the largest PFI
producers of India and over time has been successful in building
a batch processing capability of 6 ton. This has given the
company a sustainable competitive edge in terms of economies
of scale and a cost advantage to the company. Presently, the PFI
business accounts for 17% of the Company’s revenue.
One unique feature of the PFIs produced by Granules is that
it can be directly taken to the hoppers from the drums. The
Company through its PFI facilities at Jeedimetla and Gagillapur
processes these intermediates to be compressed into Finished
Dosage forms.
Advantages of Granules PFIs
Reduced development costs for vendors: Single vendor architecture
for different processes and materials, used for manufacturing
PFIs has resulted in substantial savings for Granules’ customers.
It also helps them by simplifying the supply chain management
process.
Lower testing costs: In order to minimise the testing costs of
the customers, the Company has taken the onus upon itself
to deliver products of superior quality. Thus allowing the
customers to conduct lesser tests, this in turn saved substantial
amount of testing costs for them.
Strong technical knowledge: Leveraging more than two decades
of its industry experience, Granules over the years have built
up strong technical expertise and knowledge. This has not
only helped the Company stay ahead of the curve but also help
gain its customer trust along with enabling its customers to
save in terms of expenditure on pre-formulation studies and
development processes.
Reduction of capital expenditure: Since setting up a PFI
manufacturing facility requires incurring capital expenditure,
by procuring the PFIs from Granules India, the customers can
reduce their expenditure by a great extent.
Provide desired release properties: Customers get access to
PFIs, which can be developed to provide release properties,
similar to brand leaders. This makes it possible for Finished
Dosage manufacturers to get favourable outcomes from their
bioequivalence studies

Finished Dosages (FD)
In line with the company’s strategy to have a presence across
the value chain, the Company embarked on the journey of
producing finished dosages. The current portfolio of Granules
in terms of finished dosages consists of caplets, tablets as
well as press-fit capsules in bulk, blister packs, and bottles.
The Company, over the years, has developed a state-ofart manufacturing facility at Gagillapur, which possesses
automated processes, robust infrastructure and superior
quality systems that efficiently produce finished dosages. The
Company further strengthened its customers’ competitive
advantage by providing Bi-layer Tablets, Rapid Release tablets,
and Extended Release (ER) tablets. Further, the Company has
developed its own ANDAs and dossiers, which has given its
customer a ready reckoning in the market without getting
delayed for approval. This enables Granules to beat the
competition and emerge as the preferred choice supplier of
FD’s for many customers. Presently, the FD business accounts
for 47% of the Company’s revenue.

Research and Development
With decades of dedication and deliberation, Granules has
been passionately translating science and technology into
pharmaceutical development and manufacturing, marking
its presence globally. With ‘sustainable growth,’ as our core
value, its strong R&D capabilities are the driving forces for
current and future momentum and growth. With innovation

at various levels instilled into the roots of the company,
the contribution of R&D is a crucial attribute in fostering
the vision.
Granules India is augmenting its research capabilities and
expanding its product basket to address the prospective demand
across several markets. From a commercial perspective, its
vertical integration approach gives it a competitive advantage
for both drug substance and the drug product in niche areas.
Granules’ is also sharpening its competitive advantage
with intellectual property-protected innovation for limited
competition opportunities.
While it is continuously building its capabilities on high volume
products built on maximising process efficiencies and vertical
integration, simultaneous focus is also given to expand the
portfolio. With Paracetamol, Metformin, Ibuprofen, Guaifenesin
and Methocarbamol remained a key priority, also introduced
one new product Cetirizine into it and the development of two
additional products to add to this basket, which we will offer as
integrated products to the market.
Its portfolio selection process also focuses on identifying and
developing high entry barrier products, with varied complexities
at API and/ or formulation stage. It has developed APIs that
cover a broad spectrum of therapeutic categories and expanded
capabilities into oncology actives. In its endeavor to expand the
oncology portfolio, it has established a development laboratory
and manufacturing facility for oncology API and formulations.
Granules India so far had filed 23 (2 in FY 18-19) U.S. Drug Master
Files (“USDMFs”) across several therapeutic categories with
the United States Food and Drug Administration (“U.S. FDA”)
for distribution of our products in the United States, 13 (2 in
FY 18-19) Certificates of Suitability (“CEPs”) with the European
Directorate for the Quality of Medicines (“EDQM”) and has 6
European Drug Master Files (“EDMFs”) for distribution of our
products in Europe, along with other regulatory filings in key
regulated markets to support potential ANDA and dossier
registration filings. It intends to operationalise some of the
USDMFs by filing ANDAs to forward integrate into FDs. In
finished dosage form, it had made 32 (12 in FY 18-19) ANDA
filings with the U.S. FDA of which 11 have been approved. It
intends to continue this momentum by executing development
of products of complex technology within the immediate
release, extended release, delayed release, MUPS, powders
and suspensions dosages.
It has embarked upon the journey to build intellectual property
assets. Granules currently possess 4 Granted patents and 59
Patent applications are active stage in various countries. In FY
2018-19, 04 Indian Patent applications filed. These inventions
were primarily directed towards new process for manufacturing
intermediates and or APIs, pharmaceutical composition thereof.
Operational Excellence
Granules India has designed a very successful Operational
Excellence (OE) program, which continues to deliver
sustainable results for maximising the growth of the Company.
It has taken a multi-year, multi-project OE initiative for building
technical excellence. Its OE program consists of three phases:
Diagnostic, Design, and Implementation. The Company’s
OE program began in the year 2009. The objective of the
OE team was to understand, identify, and develop projects
that are supposed to fulfill the operational efficiencies and
improvements that were identified during the Diagnostic
Phase. With the approval and evaluation of the projects, it has
formed teams that would work together to execute the project
and implement the plans. The duration of the projects depends
on the level of complexity, as they may vary from 3-4 months
to more than a year.
The operational excellence (OE) team continues to bolster
the Company competitive advantage of efficient high volume
manufacturing. The OE Team helps increase production
flexibility which improves customer responsiveness and
minimises costs. OE provides a direct channel to improving
output, in which thinking and doing is perfectly positioned
to deliver transformational results. The Company keeps on
employing the best practices in key discipline areas to progress
towards its goal of building efficient and effective operations.
It acknowledges and understands that the path to achievement
of goals is not a onetime venture; hence it cultivates a culture
of continuous improvement.
Human Capital
At Granules, the Company believes that people who feel
truly associated with the organisation are the ones who
perform to their peak capability. As a core part of our business
strategy, it is committed to providing an environment
where all of its employees feel enabled and have a sense
of belonging. The Company believes in greater diversity
within the business will maximise collective capability,
allowing leveraging the diversity of thought, and better
reflecting and understanding the diverse customer base. This
should, in turn, lead to better decision making and higher
shareholder value.
The Company invests in recruitment, development, and
wellbeing programmes supporting a diverse and inclusive, safe,
transparent and rewarding workplace. It has been successful
in building a strong team of passionate, dedicated and highly
skilled workforce. The Company has invested in nurturing,
developing and training the employees through multiple
training programs. There is dedicated safety and awareness

events conducted to ensure the employees are well, safe,
motivated and productive. The Company’s total employee
strength as on March 31, 2019, stands at 2,789.
Talking points 2018-19
• Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc. launched generic
Methylergonovine tablets (Methergine) in partnership with
Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc.
• Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc. successfully launched
Metformin XR and Methocarbamol under its own label
• Expansion of Metformin and Guaifenesin block is complete
and awaiting regulatory approval
• Construction of Oncology block is near complete with
validation batches initiated
• The Company concluded USFDA audit at Virginia Facility
with 2 observations
• The Company has filed 12 ANDAs, 2 USDMFs, 2 CEPs
during the year

Financial overview
FY19 marked an important year for the Company as it touched H2,279 crores in terms of revenue, while at the same time enhancing
its operating and net profit margins. The primary drivers of the Revenue growth are domestic API business and US formulation
business. The revenue from the basket of five core molecules which grew 30% year-on-year and contributed 83% of our total
revenue. Larger Revenue base and contribution from Granules Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has helped the Company to achieve EBITDA
growth and improvement in the margin profile. Profit after Tax (PAT) increased by 78% in FY19 to H236 crores due to growth in
operating earnings and contributions from JV entities. During the year, the Company embarked on an exercise in fiscal prudence
which is reflected in its balance sheet performance. Its Debt to Equity as of March’19 was at 0.65 times as compared to 0.75 times
a year back. Higher contribution of Profit after Tax in terms of absolute value has also helped achieve significant improvement in
the Return on Net Worth compared to the last financial year.

Quality and Compliance
Granules India believes that there is no short cut to success
which has to be ensured through sustained quality products
meeting global standards. This has enabled the Company to
become its customers’ preferred supplier.
Committed to delivering high-quality products the Company
regularly undertakes quality risk assessment and risk mitigation
processes to meet the established benchmark. For this, the
Company has in place a team of highly qualified professionals
with significant industry experience, who follow the philosophy
of Continual Product Improvement taking adequate measures
to maintain the required status. Its manufacturing facilities are
also set up in accordance with the industry quality standards.
Global regulators such as U.S. FDA, EU, MHRA, WHO GMP,
INFARMED and many more have certified the Company’s
quality maintenance.
Internal Control Systems and Adequacy
Commensurate with the size and nature of operations, the
Company has adequate systems of internal control and
procedures covering all financial and operating functions.
It believes that a strong internal control framework is one of
the most indispensable factors of Corporate Governance.
Continuous efforts are being made to enhance the controlling
system’s response to unauthorised use or losses. The audit
committee supervises all aspects of internal functioning and
advises corrective action as and when required.
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis,
describing the Company’s objectives, and predictions may be
‘forward-looking statements’, within the meaning of applicable
laws and regulations. Actual results may vary significantly from
forward-looking statements contained in this document due to
various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
include the effect of economic and political conditions in India,
volatility in interest rates, new regulations and Government
policies that may impact the Company’s business as well as
its ability to implement strategies. The Company does not
undertake endeavours to update these statements.

